He can find a fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey.
That was how he got his name.
Hi there, friends.
I'm Billy Johnson.
You're singing with me.
Glad you could come this way up a trail again today.
So how about having a seat beside me here on the log under the old pine trees?
Mighty pretty out here in the forest, isn't it?
That's cause we kept fires from running wild around here.
You know, we thought you might enjoy taking time out again today for a few moments of song and storytelling.
Of course, when I say we, I'm including those fellas just across the trail.
Sons of the Pioneers.
They've been waiting for you to come up the trail, too.
Now that you're here, let's start off this little outdoor get-together of ours.
So just relax and let's hear some mighty fine singing, huh?
Hold him down, burn his hide.
There's extra pay for every day, so hold that critter down, burn his high, hold him down.
It's round-up time and the weather's fine and the strays must all be branded.
The irons try and the gogies try, but the old man has commanded.
So all day long I sing this song, hold that critter down, hold him down, burn his high.
There's extra pay for every day, so hold that critter down, burn his hide, holding down.
I'll head for town when the boss comes round with the back pay that he owes me.
Get drunk to sin with my old pal Jim and land where the bouncer throws me.
Then bet him ten he can't do it again, so hold that critter down, holding down, burn his hide.
There's extra pay for every day, so hold that critter down, burn his hide, hold him down.
I'll be back next day with ten minutes' pay left from the check that I drew.
The boss says, son, you're a son of a gun, but I wish that I was like you.
So I'll burn hair for next month's hair and hold that critter down.
Hold him down, burn his hide.
There's extra pay for every day, so hold that critter down, burn his hide, hold him down.
Hold that critter down.
The boys roll that song just about as fast as a fire runs wild through the forest or woods.
Now there's one critter we all ought to lend a hand and hold him down.
Wildfire.
Someone once said, to stage a forest fire you need only a few things.
A forest,
the right atmospheric conditions, and a spark, either from a lightning bolt or a match in the hands of a fool or a knave.
The formula is simple.
The wonder is that we do not have more and bigger fires.
Well, sir, when you consider we still have in the neighborhood of 190,000 forest and wood fires in this country every year, I think you'll agree that's too many.
And whether they're big or small, the damage they do to our timber resources
Well, sir, it's a crying shame.
Because when trees burn, it's not only lumber that goes up in smoke, it's part of the very strength and security of our nation.
When these trees burn, it's the same as burning up money and jobs, and the very foundation of homes and communities.
I want to tell you some more about this, but I see the sons of the pioneers have their hearts set on the beauty of Oklahoma, the state of rolling plains and heavily wooded mountains.
Go ahead, boys.
The everlasting hills of Oklahoma They hold a million treasures to be found
Golden grain on hills of green Wave to valleys, cool and clean Too bad some foes have never teemed The everlasting hills of Oklahoma
The everlasting tales of Oklahoma Are told in clouded statues in the sky Pioneers who long have gone
Their wagon wheels still rumble on when thunder feels and falls upon the everlasting hills of Oklahoma.
The everlasting fame of Oklahoma will live in names of men she claims her own.
Some were right and some were wrong in history's pages, frozen songs.
Oh, hail them now, for they all belong to the everlasting hymn of all.
Well, sir, I'm sure the folks in Oklahoma are mighty proud of that, too.
You know, friends, it really doesn't matter who you are or where you live.
When trees burn, it affects you in one way or another.
Supposing you're a farmer in Kansas or a railroad worker in Seattle or a housewife in Brooklyn.
What does a forest fire burning, say, in Oregon or Mississippi have to do with you?
The answer, my friend, is plenty.
Just think about your own home.
You're mighty proud of it, I know.
And you've spent a lot of money to make it attractive and livable.
But what's helped to make it so?
Wood in all its forms.
Wood from the very forests, perhaps, that are blazing in Oregon or Mississippi.
Oh, we're all in this, all right.
Every one of us.
Whoever we are, wherever we live.
Whether it's in Colorado or Michigan or in Virginia...
In the blue-red mountains of Virginia On the trail of the lonesome pine In the pale moonshine Our hearts entwined Where she carved a name And I carved mine, oh, June Like the mountains, I'm blue Like the pine I am lonesome for you In the blue-red mountains of Virginia
On the trail of the lonesome pine.
Oh, Jew, like the mountains, I'm blue.
Like the pine, I am lonesome for you.
In the blue rich mountains of Virginia.
On the trail of the lonesome pine.
You know, talking about pine trees in Virginia...
All through the south and pretty much everywhere the trees grow.
Do you know what suffers most when the forest or woods burns?
It's the little trees just getting started in life.
Next time you're out in the woods, search out those little fellas.
Seedlings, we call them.
You'll find them hidden in the grass if you look real close.
Now those are the little trees that will grow into our future supply of timber if they're just given the chance.
You see, it doesn't take a big fire to kill those little trees.
The ground fires of the east and south, usually not very dramatic fires, do terrible damage to the seedlings.
Why, it picks them off as clean as you do a platter of tender southern fried chicken.
But seriously, friends, forest and woods fires, no matter how big or how small they are, give our timber resources an awful beat.
We've just got to keep them from getting started.
Don't you agree, Lloyd?
We've seen those things, Billy, close up.
We've had a full dose of fighting forest fires, the boys and myself.
And if we never have to fight another one, it'll be too soon.
You know, if folks could just realize the sweat and back-breaking work and heartbreak, too, that goes with forest fire fighting, I'm sure they'd be careful with fire every time they use it outdoors.
If they had to walk through a burned forest and see for themselves the awful damage that wildfire does, well, let's sing a song, boys.
Oh, sun goes down, work's all done.
Evens here at last.
Moon comes up behind the hills I love.
And I'm ridin' home.
See that lonesome now.
I'm down that lonesome trail.
I'm down the trail.
Sit down, doggies, rest a while.
I'll be back tomorrow morn.
And take you down to where the water's cool.
But now I'm ridin' home.
See that lonesome down.
I'm down that lonesome down the trail.
He's riding home.
And coming our way up the trail is Smokey Bear, big as life with a special message for me.
Hello there, folks.
Here's something to think about.
Somewhere in this country, day in and day out, a forest or woodland is on fire.
That's right.
There's an average of 500 forest fires every day in the United States.
In a year's time, these fires destroy enough saw timber trees
to build 86,000 five-room houses, enough pulp-sized trees each year to supply newsprint to every newspaper in the country for 12 months, and millions of little trees.
Tomorrow's timber go up in flames at the same time.
So please be careful.
Remember, only you can prevent forests and wood fires.
Well, I'll be seen.
And there he goes down the trail.
Thank you, Smokey.
Friends, you know it's your own state forestry department along with the United States Forest Service and this station you're listening to that makes these little outdoor get-togethers possible.
Until we say hi to each other again, please keep in mind what Smokey Bear says.
Remember, only we, you and I, can't prevent forest and woods fires.
Well, so long for now from Billy Johnson, your singing woodsman, and the Sons of the Pioneers.
Smokey the Fair, Smokey the Fair, growlin' and a-growlin' and a-slippin' the air.
He can find a fire before he starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name.
Smokey the Fair, Smokey the Fair.
Rowling and the growling and the sniffing the air.
He can find a fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey.
That was how he got his name.
Smokey the Bear.
Crowlin' and a-growlin' and a-sniffin' the air He can find a fire before it starts to flame That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name Smokey the Bear, Smokey the Bear Crowlin' and a-growlin' and a-sniffin' the air He can find a fire before it starts to flame That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name